---
layout: post
title:      "Why web development? "
date:       2018-12-05 23:16:24 +0000
permalink:  why_web_development
---

That was the overarching question during the interview process for this program. I am not super great at being interviewed. I try my best, but there's always a lot of stuff I neglect to mention to maintain brevity, and also because my brain usually turns to scrambled eggs and my list of talking points is defenestrated.

During the interview I did mention that I've been interested in computer science since I was young. However, growing up in a very male-dominated and traditional family and living in a third world country really limited my career options. The health field was always made to seem like my only option, because nurturing people is a nice feminine thing to do I guess. While I narrowly avoided medical school (I'm not a big fan of staying awake for 48 hours straight), I did gravitate more towards the research side of healthcare. Public health is a fascinating field, and I do enjoy the majority of it, but it's also mired in beaurucracy and goverment-imposed limitations. I found this to be true even when I transitioned from public health into neurology research, and I found I had little patience for that. Like many people at the ripe old age of 27, I began to question if this was what I wanted to do for the rest of my life, and after much inner turmoil I decided, nah it wasn't.

I knew I enjoyed statistical coding but I also knew that I enjoy being creative. Any future calling would ideally incorporate the satisfaction of getting code to work with some level of creative freedom. At the time of all this inner turmoil, my husband (who has worked in IT for over 5 years) was learning Python on his own. You know, just for fun, as one does. Seeing the kind of work he was doing, my curiosity was piqued. I rampantly googled skills and career prospects related to various coding languages and eventually came to the conclusion that web development would be a good fit. It allows for creativity and inventiveness while still following the coding logic similar to what I had become familiar with while working with statistics software. Web dev skills are also extremely versatile, and while I would love to find a future career where I could say, help develop the online presence of a non-profit or something equally helpful to humanity, I'm also not averse to other pathways. I think I'd be satisfied as long as I was still learning something new, not stagnating, and putting my skills to good use. Of course, the first step to all of this is to earn these skills, so here I am!
